This is a podcast from BFM 89.9, The Business Station. BFM 89.9. Good morning. It's 7:0:6 AM AM on Tuesday, 23rd April. You're listening to the Morning Run. I'm Shazana Mukdar with Wong Shao Ling and Keith Kalm. Now in half an hour, we're going get reactions on the KL twenty action plan to propel Malaysia into the startup ecosystem stratosphere. But in the meantime, let's kick start the morning with a look at how global markets closed overnight. So Wall Street ended in a nice shade of green after Friday's red day, probably because everyone was buying on dips. Eyes are also on some corporate earnings. The Dow Jones was up 0.7%, the S and P 500 was up 0.9%, and the Nasdaq rose 1.1% earlier in the day in Asia. Japan's Nikkei was up 1%. Hang Seng's index was up 1.8 percent, Shanghai's composite bucked the trend closed 0.7% lower, Singapore's STI was up 1.5% and the FBM KLCI closed up 0 point 8% at 1,560 points. So for some thoughts on what's moving markets, we have on the line with us Joe Quinlan, a chief market strategist at the US Trust Bank of America Private Wealth Management. Joe, good morning. This week, a 178 companies on the S and P 500 will be reporting their earnings. Do markets still care, or is the fed fund rate the main determinant of market direction? Little bit of both, but our earnings are front and center. So there's a lot of sector focus, company focus. You got the big technology companies, Tesla, today as well. So there's know, given the market some offsets, you know, buoyancy to the upside given the Fed's, you know, downside pivot. Joe, we know you can't comment on specific stocks, but 4 of the magnificent 7 are reporting this week. So if these names disappoint to some extent, do you expect some some kind of a sell down on tech on the tech heavy Nasdaq as this as this unusual grouping of stocks are priced to perfection? I the short answer is yes. And I think the magnificent 7, I think that's over. Okay. You know, you can you can think of a couple you can throw out. They're not magnificent anymore. They look pretty mundane, actually. And that's just that's just kind of what's happening with us, electrical vehicles, smartphones. And what's really happening when we have conversation now with technology analysts or hedge funds, they're looking to broaden out from these 7 companies. So I think that's good. There's more to the universe, Tech University universe in 7 names. So I think that's good. It broadens out tech. It helps broaden out the general market as well. The question is who can hang their hat on AI and convince investors to pay multiples pay up multiples that in some cases just won't make sense. So Joe, if I were to pay attention to earning season and look at other than the Magnificent Seven, what should I be looking at? So give me a gauge of what to buy in the coming quarters. We think like large cap value consumer product groups, I think health care has been beaten up a little bit here. Financials have had a good run, so I wouldn't that's kind of taken off. And then more on the industrial side as well, I think industrials are leveraging robotics, AI, they still got the demand out there, a lot of money coming through the pipeline for factory construction. And then the miners, not commodities per se, but the miners that help pull stuff out of the ground. So there's places to put some money to work. What about outside of America? Or is the US economy still the the the strong man standing? For sure. I mean, the US I mean, honestly, I mean, these aren't my words to the economists. The the US economy is putting the rest of the world to shame, and that that is true. I mean, it's a quote from The Economist Magazine, and you're just seeing the growth differential. The key here is that we could see the dollar get a lot stronger, and that could hurt U. S. Earnings of big multinationals. So we got to watch that very carefully. But we like the luxury brand companies of France, Italy, some of the renewable plays up in the Nordic nations, robotics in South Korea and Japan. But it's it's it's very it's very specific as opposed broadly country based. And speaking of Japan and Korea, we are seeing momentum for these markets turning. There's been a lot of heavy selling there. Is it too early to throw in the towel for these markets, do you think? No. I don't think it's too early. I mean, I I actually, I you start to nibble on some of these markets because I think it's overdone. I think we could be looking at current currency intervention in the 2 markets you just talked about, so that could be a backstop for the downside pressure. So I do think just the U. S. Investors are really myopically focused on the U. S. Because it's always delivered over the long run. So honestly, when you have a conversation about emerging markets with U. S. Investors, they don't they think you're talking South Carolina or North Carolina, not Malaysia. I mean, it's really myopic because it's paid. I mean, it's paid to stay at home. And until that flips, that just makes you know, that's that's rational. That makes sense. Joe, if you look at, the dollar yen and the dollar against the Korean won, they are at multi decade, their weakest level in decades. You mentioned something about intervention. At what point are you expecting this to to come in then? I mean, that's a great question. I mean, I'm not really sure, but, you know, they've leaked. I think the policymakers have leaked out to the media that maybe intervention is on the table. And that sometimes can be a warning shot for the traders to pay attention to, but I don't think we're there just yet. Then the big, you know, the big pivot was Powell, you know, basically becoming a hawk last week saying, well, no. We're not gonna raise or we're not going to cut rates. They're standing alone. ECB is going to cut rates. Bank of Japan rates are so low, it doesn't matter. Bank of Canada, England. So it's that interest rate differential that I think, you know, supports the dollar higher. Intervention, I think, is just kinda weak talk right now that no trader is gonna, like, you know, take a bet on just yet. So it looks like, even the ECB will be the first to cut rates before the Federal Reserve even though they resisted that at the last meeting. Right, Joe? Mhmm. They did. And then but Lagarde made it very clear, you know, they're not, you know, they're not fed dependent. They're data dependent. And honestly, Europe is weaker. Inflation has fallen faster, and they need to cut rates that generate growth. United States, we're going to get, I think, the Q1 print, the first go around, we're running around 3% again, say, 2.5%, 3% growth, real growth in the United States. That's that's pretty good for a $28,000,000,000,000 economy. So, you know, we our rates can stay where they are, but Europe's have to come down because their their growth is a lot weaker. And rising oil prices, how does that affect everybody's inflation print, though, and in turn, their respective monetary policies, be it the ECB or even the Fed? If we stay in that $80 to $90 per barrel, I think we're okay. Central bankers can sleep at night. But when you push up a 100, 110, then you got a different issue. And we're not we're not calling for that. And then it comes political dynamite. I mean, you know, let's face it. The Biden administration, is running a good economy, good stock market, but not getting much credit because gasoline prices hit close to home. So it could be political as well. But oil prices, they're very important for we need oil prices where they are to anchor inflation expectations where they are and let other things work them way out. The biggest issue with inflation in the United States is more services. It's auto insurance, home insurance, health care, and it's not goods or commodity related. Joe, thanks as always for the chat. That was Joe Quinlan, chief market strategist at the US Trust Bank of America Private Wealth Management, giving us some of his, thoughts on what's moving markets, the trends that we're gonna be watching in the days ahead. It is a big week for US earnings. So many of the big, tech names, as well as other major blue chip companies will be seeing their reports come out. And I think everyone's looking to see, are they going to beat estimates? Like, could they meet estimates? But more importantly, what is the guidance that they're gonna be giving for the remainder of the year? Tesla is first that's gonna be reporting US time tonight. Will be interesting to see because it's that stock has just really disappointed. Stockdowns more than 40% on a year to date basis, announcing price cuts here, left, right, and center. China, as much as 2,000 US dollars per vehicle. I think this is because EV cars, even in China, like BYD, they cut prices over the weekend. So I think Tesla's under pressure to follow suit. They're cutting 10% of their staff. Elon Musk, not so rosy picture for him. I also can't help thinking that that Tesla is pretty much, stuck as far as designs are concerned because if you look at how how how, innovative the designs are for, you know, the Chinese makes and even Polestar from from, Sweden. Tesla seems to be falling a little bit behind there. You don't like that truck or whatever, the SUV? I can't decide. It looks like something out of a, like, a Star Trek show. It looks like something a 6 year old drew in school, you know. But we are gonna be Simpson. Yeah. We are gonna be talking more about Tesla in the days ahead, especially after its earnings, come out. Everyone's bracing for the worst, I think. But looking at other company results, let's take a look at SAP. They are Europe's biggest software firm. They reported a significant 24% increase in first quarter cloud revenue to €3,930,000,000,000 driven by strong demand for its enterprise resource planning software. So the cloud business represents the primary growth avenue for the German company. So SAP also announced a restructuring program costing €2,000,000,000 to further invest in this area, and this involves retraining employees in AI skills, offering voluntary redundancies to some. And despite recording a quality operating loss of €787,000,000 due to provisions for the restructuring, SAP also reaffirms its outlook for 2024. It's anticipating cloud revenue in the range of 17 to €17,300,000,000. Okay. So when I look at this company, I'm thinking, what is their strategy? And they're quite smart because they are marrying the 2 biggest technology or the 2 biggest things in technology at the current moment. 1, which is cloud, because everybody's migrating there. And everybody wants a slice of that pie. Right? Be it Microsoft or Amazon, everybody wants cloud because that's where companies are heading. And then the same time, they're trying to incorporate artificial intelligence into their products, which is also some things everybody's been talking about. Now whether they're gonna be successful is is the question. The restructuring, definitely, I think the market was happy with it even though it meant a loss. In terms of whether the street likes its name, probably, it does look like the case. I think they like the story here. So there are 18 buys, 8 holes, 3 sells. The stock, of course, listed in Germany. Its, consensus target price, a €183. Current share price is actually up €2.84 to a €167. The other day, I mentioned francs. I don't know what decade I was when I was You were stuck in the past. Yeah. When I was talking about L'Oreal, I said Frank's, please. That was, like, many, many moons ago that should have been yours. Showing your age right here. Yeah. I'm showing my age. Alright. Let's turn our attention to another stock that's reported of Verizon Communications. They saw fewer than expected losses in wireless subscribers for the Q1, and this is attributed to flexible plans and bundled offerings with discounted services like Netflix and Warner Bros. Discoveries Max. The company lost 68,000 monthly bill paying wireless phone subscribers. That's lower than the estimated 100,000. And this was seen as a positive I mean, a traditionally slow quarter for the industry. In fact, Verizon's, premium My Plan option and partnerships with streaming services, they've also resonated well with consumers, and they also recently introduced promotional bundles including free Disney services and discounted subscriptions to Netflix as well as Max. I mean, everybody loves a good deal. Right? Everybody loves a good deal. For sure. But I think this is a very tough industry. Right? So where is really growing growth coming from? I think the pie can't really grow very much. So everybody just fights for the same pie. And then it's a question of market share, which means discounting, which then means what impact will it have on your margins. So let's just have a quick look in terms of the analysts. Do they like this Rather old school technology company, and the answer is no because it's 13 buys, 16 holds, 3 sells. Consensus target price for this stock is 44 US dollars 74¢. During regular market hours, it was down close to $1.90 to $38.60. Alright. It's 7:18 in the morning. We're heading into some messages, but we will come back to look at more of the top stories in the newspapers and portals this morning. Stay tuned. BFM 89.9. You have been listening to a podcast from BFM 89.9, The Business Station. For more stories of the same kind, download the VFM app.

