This is a podcast from BFM 89.9, the business station. 9:19 AM, you're listening to the morning run with Shazana, Shaoming, and Phil. Let's get a quick update on the FBM KLCI. Are we still up 8%? Yes. On a year to date basis, to be exact, 7.88%. This morning alone, we are up by 0.5% to 1,569 points. Alright. Well, let's turn our attention to the electric vehicles market in China. Approximately 14,000,000 EVs were sold in 2023, and 2 players, BYD and Tesla, have been battling for the top spot in the sector. In the last quarter of 2023, BYD saw the Q1 where its battery only sales have outpaced Tesla's thanks to aggressive price cuts. But China's biggest EV maker dominance as the world's biggest EV seller was short lived as for 1st quarter sales fell by 43% quarter on quarter to around 300,000 while Tesla delivered only around 386,000 vehicles. So has the electric vehicle boom hit a wall and who will come to dominate the market? For more insights on this, we speak to Ray Kuo, director of research department at CGS International Securities. Good morning, Ray. Thanks very much for joining us. EV sales globally, we've been seeing the numbers slip with intense price competition and new models being introduced at a record pace. Is this the scenario also the case in China? Thank you. Good morning. There was more than 60 60 new model launches in the Q1 24, both from emerging EV speakers and also traditional ICE Smakers with a certain price that was 15 10 to 15% lower than the similar configuration. We believe Chinese u v's maker is the the most competitive market in the world, given that not only the u v's maker cutting price for market share, but IC's maker also facing challenges and cutting price on their legacy model in order to maintain their sales. Well, Riz, you're saying right. China, these leading makers have been cutting prices rather aggressively with even Tesla doing so. What is the strategy really behind this move? Since BYD, China Chinese market leaders, initiating the price war with the we ramped the model in the Q1 this year. Other EUC EV OEM appear to have a low choice but to lower the certain price of their models in order to maintain competitive. We believe that almost all EV spare engage in the price war in the Q1 this year in order to gain market share. A lot of these market share come first applied to all Chinese EV maker in our view. But with this fight for market share, would we see the demise of the smaller EV players? I mean, who's vulnerable to that, or will we actually see some industry consolidation? Well, we believe the 2nd tier's u v smicker with any annual shipment of fewer than 200,000 units will struggling to survival, because it appear difficult to be profitable while consistently burning money. We believe that only those with a strong financial and technological technological capability will be successful. The electrical vehicle industry has been consolidating over the past 2 years in China. More than 3 Chinese Chinese emerging EVs maker have exist market or gone bankrupt. Repeat of that, Xiaomi will be the last emerging EVs manufacturer to enter China US market, excluding the traditional ICs make a launching new UEE models. So you mentioned Xiaomi, and I suppose they would be, one of the competitors, towards Tesla. I mean, Tesla released the results last night, quite disappointing. Do you think that in China, they can retain their edge in the luxury EV segment? To be honest, China Tesla market share in China has been declining since, Q1 last year, falling from falling from approximately 15% in the Q1 last year to only 7% in the in the, Q1 this year over the past 12 month, they lose almost half of the market share only to increase the competition from Chinese series speakers such as Huawei Pass series, Xiaopan, BYD, all give a very strong, competitive, to BY, to Tesla model. We don't expect Tesla to be keeping market share in China, but it will continue to be one of the key EV spare in China and in the world due to their leading technologies in EV industry. And, Rui, Chinese EV players like BYD, Li Auto, and Xpeng have done well domestically, but can they actually penetrate other markets like the EU and the US? Are there currently any trade barriers imposed there? BYP Xiaopao has been selling EVs in Europe since 2022, but, Lioto has not yet to export its EV. There are no import tariffs for both the US and the EU currently, but we believe both regions will impose import tariff on China's CV in the near futures to protect the auto industry. In general, Chinese EV sell for 20 20 to 40% than cheaper, cheaper than the local EVs with a better configuration and more intelligent features in the copies. However, China's TV manufacturers achieve approximately 20 to 40% higher selling price when they sell domestic cooling. So I believe they will target the overseas market will be the one of the major driver of the U. S. Ray, with that, what is your call in the sector and your top three picks and why? In Hong Kong and charter market, we prefer BYD followed by the Liato due to the increased EV shipment growth and also higher vehicle profit margin. Ray, thank you very much for speaking with us. That was Ray Kuo, director of research at CGS International Securities, giving us the outlook for the Chinese EV market. They really are one of those sectors that just has the most competitors, compared to the rest of the world, really, where, you know, there still seems to be space made. Yeah. So 60 new models all coming in at at lower prices, and the fight for market share is real. BYD, if I look at the Hong Kong listed shares, is down 8% on a year to date basis. Valuations, okay. Not too bad. Fourteen times PE. Does the street believe this name? Is it gonna be giving Tesla a run for its money as the number one carmaker? And the answer is yes. 38 buys. One hole, just one cell. Consensus target price, 282 Hong Kong dollars. His, current share price, hasn't opened yet because Hong Kong opens at 10 AM. 197 US sorry, Hong Kong dollars. You think the Chinese are doing so well in this space because they timed it right? They got into the market at the right time. And you know generally all these Western automakers they struggle to transition because they're still you know stuck with the current ICE platform right the convention engine platform. China started this way way back. Right? In that sense, they really had the vision to go into this industry, and don't forget, they did receive a lot of government support to actually build this. This isn't an overnight thing. They've been working on this for the better part of the last decade, and that's what gives them the advantage now. We do see that in the west, they are struggling to pick up, and we're seeing governments, they're also starting to want to give their automakers an edge. How is this gonna play out is the big question. And very quickly, Lee Auto, his other recommendation, another DALI, even though this stock is down more than 30% on year to date basis. 38 buys, no holds, just one sell. Consensus target price for the Hong Kong listed share, 197 Hong Kong dollars. It, closed $98 yesterday. Alright. It's 9:27 in the morning. We do have a quick message for you. Are you looking to take your brand to the next level and inspire future marketers? Seize this opportunity to immerse yourself in the ultimate brand building experience. Take your brand to the next level and build future marketers with 25 brand building experts at the 19th BFM Brand Fest. Happy on the 3rd 4th July at the CCEC at the vertical Bangsa South City. Early bird tickets end on the 26th April, so don't miss out and head over to bfm.my/brandfest for more information. We have the 9:30 AM news bulletin coming up next followed by the property show where we look at the outlook for the luxury real estate market. Stay tuned to BFM 89.9. You have been listening to a podcast from BFM 89.9, the business station. For more stories of the same kind, download the BFM app.

