The Magnificent 7 Are Now The Fantastic Hour
This is a podcast from BFM 89.9, the business station. BFM 89.9. Good morning. It's 7:0:6 AM on Friday 26th April you're listening to the morning run I'm Shazana Mukhtar with Wong Shao Ning Now in half an hour, we're going to discuss how the ongoing general elections in India could impact the nation's economic outlook, but as always, let's recap how global markets closed overnight. Oh, what a wild ride. Despite rather good tech, numbers, which we'll discuss in a few minutes, the Dow was down 1%, s and p 400 down by 0.5%, Nasdaq down by 0.6%. Meanwhile, here in Asia, it was a bit more mixed. Nikkei was down 2.2%. Hang Seng was up 0.5%. The Shanghai Composite was up by 0.3%. Singapore Straits Times down by 0.2%, while our very own FBM KLCI was down by 0.1%. Alright. For analysis on what's moving international markets, we speak to Mish Schneider, chief strategist at marketgaugedot com. Mish, good morning. Lots to talk about today. Let's start off with maybe looking at earnings. 4 out of the magnificent seven tech stocks have reported quarterly earnings overnight. We saw Alphabet as well as Microsoft. How much of a divergence are we seeing in terms of performance, and what do you think this tells us about the appetite for AI driven growth? Well, as you know, we had a separation where Tesla came in with terrible earnings and rallied, and Meta came in with great earnings and fell. And then to add to the drama, we had the Microsoft and Google earnings. Google, actually, after hours, based on great earnings, corporate buybacks, way more, advertising sales on their YouTube channel than anticipated, gapped up to new highs, which is after hours, of course. And Microsoft also did better than what was expected, and it it rallied from where it closed, but, it still is in its range, so to speak, and that it really hasn't been able to clear over recent highs of 4:30. So what does that tell us? So much is going to depend on how interest rates, inflation affect the bottom line costs even for AI Because we know valuations got very lofty. And so if you look at a company like Meta, Zuckerberg was talking about the fact that they were going to need to spend a lot more money on research in order to stay competitive. If you look at Tesla, they're talking about not necessarily AI, but in their software and robo taxis, that they have to lower the cost to consumer. And with Google and Microsoft, I don't think we really know how the consumer is gonna be impacted. But, clearly, at this point, and this may not necessarily sustain, AI really has driven, particularly with Microsoft, one of the reasons why they've grown so much. So my wrap up on this is essentially that valuations can get really nuts based on sort of a fear of missing out on, obviously, what's the future? AI. No one's going to dispute that. The question is is how much do these companies have to pay in order to continue to really stay ahead of the curve? And what is going to be the bottom line cost to any consumer that's involved? And that might affect the bottom line to a point where we get a better sense of fair valuation down the road, maybe next earning season. Again, because of these factors that we have outside of the realm, mainly interest rates and inflation. Mish, what does history tell us in terms of how patient investors will be to wait for AI to be monetized? Do we use the dotcombubble as an example? Well, there's there's definitely similarities to the dotcombubble in that for those who may be too young to remember. Oh, I I definitely remember that. Well, you put dotcom behind the company's name, and it and it immediately went crazy. And some of these companies weren't worth very much. In fact, they had negative balance sheets. And it was also at a very different time. Now with AI, I don't I think you'll have some shakeout, but that's why we're looking at the magnificent seven, if you will, or even if you wanna bring it down to the fantastic 4. NVIDIA, of course, has yet to report. And where are they going to go? And I think that's that's exactly the question is, people are using AI, and we know AI is gonna drive everything from music to medicine to how we do work to our businesses, how we conduct, you know, in terms of our searches for things. But, really, how far can it go from an expense and evaluation point that justifies? And I think if we look at EV as a great example of that, even better than dotcom, everybody's talking EVs. Right? EV is the future. Again, no doubt. But what we've seen is that with competition and certain infrastructure, problems, and and and really basically somewhat of a disappointment because they haven't been able to really sell in the way that they thought they could because people couldn't drive them very far without looking for a station to fill to, you know, recharge, etcetera. Those prices have come way down even though we all know EV is the future, and it could be the same thing with AI. So as an investor, I don't know if I would necessarily be chasing at this point. We were kinda hoping really that Microsoft and Google wouldn't come in as explosive, and, of course, anything that happened tomorrow. But right now, what that might do is help NVIDIA and some of the other companies, but we'll see if it can sustain, actually. And and and I think, eventually, they'll find a range. Let's also take a look at the economic data that came out, this evening. We see the latest US GDP print come in lower than expected at 1.6%, while the core inflation number was also hotter than forecasted. How do you think this is gonna factor into the Fed's calculation on when to cut interest rates? Well, this really presents as probably the most difficult monetary policy to enact, and that's stagflation. So this is the classic definition of stagflation when you have economic growth slowing or stagnating, and yet inflation continues to carry on. And in the past, what has happened, if you go back to the last time we had this situation, which really and now I know you're not gonna tell me you were around then. 1979, 1980, this is what happened and how they were able to deal with it was they actually had to allow the economy to go into a recession to bring down inflation. So if we take that to what's applicable today, some things are very different. We have a much higher debt. We have much more government spending. We have a shortage of raw materials. We have a geopolitical situation in certain pockets around the world, you know, not the least, which, of course, is what's going on in the Middle East, Russia, Ukraine. Anything interrupt anywhere else at any time, it seems. So what the Fed is going to be faced with here is door number 1, spike in the idea of recession and raise the rates to fight inflation or keep the status quo, let inflation get a little hotter thinking it's transitory, but yet not necessarily ruin the chance of a soft landing that they were so hoping for. So my feeling is at this point, they won't know what to do, and they'll just stay the course. Okay. Can we turn our attention to Japan and, Nikkei was above 30,000 in the 19 eighties. But looking at the yen, looking at the yen, it has depreciated beyond 155 to the dollar for the first time in 3 decades. So what does this mean for the Bank of Japan? Will they actually intervene? Well, you know, the Bank of Japan historically has not done a lot of intervention, interestingly. And even though they recently intervened with a slight hike, I mean, it really went going from negative to 0.1% is not necessarily too dramatic. This drop in the end has been, you know, essentially really a a a troublesome thing for Japan. So the anticipation is that they may be close to intervening. But from what I read, they may wanna see the yen go even lower to the dollar, more like 1.57 to 1.60 before they actually do something. And if they do something, they may do it more patiently, but more significantly. And then here's the most interesting thing about Bank of Japan relative to the US is they will be watching. They may not do anything and watch very carefully what happens at our own next Fed meeting. Because if the Fed intimates it all that there could be cuts coming, which, of course, would then, affect the US dollar, bringing that down, then in essence, that would help bolster the yen, and they wouldn't necessarily have to do anything. So I think this patient stance that they have will persist at least for another week or 2 until they have more information. Mish, thanks so much for speaking with us. That was Mish Schneider, chief strategist at market gauge.com, giving us her take on some of the trends that she sees moving markets in the days weeks ahead, helping us unpack some of the factors, that are causing, markets to swing up and down, how they're reacting to the different themes in play, particularly AI. And with that, let's turn our attention to those earnings. Maybe we can go through a little bit of the details. Let's start with Alphabet. As Mitch said, the shares did soar and extended trading after they issued Q1 results that topped analyst estimates, thanks to growth in cloud computing and also announced its first dividend. So the shares rose and pushed market capitalization value to above $2,000,000,000,000 joining peers like Microsoft, Apple, and NVIDIA. Revenue rose by 15% on year to $67,600,000,000. This is the fastest growth rate since early 2022, and it exceeded Wall Street's estimate of 66 $1,000,000,000. Okay. So the good news, their advertising business looks set to recover. Google's total ad sales rose 13% year on year to $61,700,000,000. Cloud, which is, of course, another important segment, dev that revenue rose by 28% to 9.6 $1,000,000,000 thanks to investments in developing AI. So it's all about AI. It's all about cloud. Those are the magic words. CapEx did rise. It did it rose more than expected to $12,000,000,000 this quarter, but operating margin still remain very healthy at 32% from 25% a year ago. I think that's also thanks to all the cost cutting they did earlier in the year. If we look at the street, definitely still a darling. 55 buys, 10 holes, no sells. Consensus target price for, this stock, a 169 US dollars 35¢. Last time, it was actually down during regular market hours, but I think it was up after market hours, $256, down $3.13. The other reason to look at the store is that they have announced the first ever share buyback. Ah. So double whammy. Did they dividends and share buyback. Wow. Well done, Alphabet investors. Maybe in the little bit of time that we have, let's take a look at, Microsoft as well because they too, had pretty good earnings. They beat, expectations on the top and bottom lines, thanks to corporate demand for its cloud and artificial intelligence offerings. Revenue rose by 17% to $61,900,000,000 while profit was $2.94 per share. Oh my goodness. I sound like a broken record because, once again, the segment that contributed to earnings is cloud. Azure is their name for their cloud business. Biggest revenue driver sales rose by around 21% to $26,700,000,000 also beating estimates. So and at the same time, they're also spending some money in AI, and they're trying to, I think, combine cloud and AI. I'm thinking who isn't. Right? Everybody who isn't doing it, you probably see it in your share price going down. Now software also productivity and business processing units containing the office productivity productivity software LinkedIn generated more than $19,600,000,000 in revenue, up by about 12%. Windows revenue rose 11% in the quarter. Even Xbox jumped 62%, thanks to their acquisition of Activision Blizzard. Remember? 69,000,000,000 they spent on that. So Outlook revenue for the current quarter to be $64,000,000,000 slightly below than I think what the street was expecting was at 64.5. But maybe they're guiding lower so that they can, you know, kinda surprise you on an upside. Right. 62 buys, 5 holes, no sells. Consensus target price for what is the world's most valuable company, 470 2 US dollars 57¢. Last stand price, 399 US dollars 4¢, down 10 $10. Alright. 7 19 in the morning. We're gonna head into some messages, but we'll come back to look at more of the top stories in the newspapers and portals. Stay tuned to BFM 89.9. You have been listening to a podcast from BFM 89.9, the business station. For more stories of the same kind, download the VFM app.

